# Northwind_Traders_project
Analysing Northwind_traders data_set to answers using Excel and PowerBi

Author:Jameson 

## Project description
this is an analysis on the sales trends of Northwind Traders, I analyse on the data from the Northwind Traders dataset
from category table,customer table,employee table,orders table,orders_details table,product table,shipper table.
Both on Excel and PowerBi to solve buniness question. I imported the data set into Excel and powerBi respectively 

## DISCLIAMER 
This is not a real life data set but use to demonstrate my skills in Excel and PowerBi 

## PROBLEM STATEMENT 
The aim was to solve for the followng:

1. Calculate the total sales (revenue) for each category of products.
2. Determine which customer has placed the highest number of orders.
3. Calculate the total sales generated by each employee.
4. Show the trend in sales over time.
5. Calculate the average time it takes to process an order from the order date to the
shipped date.


 Also solve the following with PowerBI; building a top-level KPI dashboard for the executive 
team. Its purpose should be to allow them to quickly understand the company's performance in 
key areas, including:

o Sales trends

o Product performance

o Key customers

o Shipping Cost

## SKILLS DESMONSTRATED
Excel functions such as pivot tables,creating tables, data modelling, creating of dashboard, creating graphs, PowerBi, creating dashboard,daxs , creating new colunms

## TOOLS USED
Excel: For Data preparation 
Power Bi : For visualization 

## KEY INSIGHT
The reveune for each category of products here



